I plunged my hands into the gooey blob in front of me and grabbed with all my strength. I pulled two long, spindly strands out toward me. Frowning in concentration, I pulled them over, made a fist, and punched the whole mass back into the steel bowl.
“Meeees Reeeeeevers!” 
Philippe’s voice reverberated behind my head. I jumped about a foot and forgot to let go of the dough. The huge bowl spun towards me precariously and was only saved from landing on the floor by a sudden grab from Bernie, stationed next to me. I flashed her a grateful smile and re-centered the bowl in the middle of my counter space.
“Yes, Monsieur deSouse,” I gasped after I’d gotten my breath back. He’d massacred my name - Kay Rivers - but since he was standing directly behind me and shouting at my head, no one had any doubt who he was aiming for.
“This is an abomination!” he yelled, and waved his arms toward the rest of the class. “Come and see this disaster so you can avoid it for yourselves! Come, now!”
The remaining students in his Master Pastry class obediently shuffled over and arranged themselves around my workspace. I gritted my teeth and stood back a little. He’d been screaming at mistakes for the last two and a half hours, and the four of us were the only ones left. He had started out with ten, but that was at the beginning of the session. A steady stream of furious bakers demanding refunds had occupied the time of John Paul, his assistant, pretty much without stopping.
I wasn’t sure why I was still there. I knew why I started the class: I was trying to decide whether to change careers. Philippe deSouse was a world-class pastry maker who had recently settled himself as Principal Baker at one of the premier luxury resorts in Tucson. If I was serious about baking, I couldn’t pass up an opportunity to take a class from him.
His abuse of students and assistants was almost as legendary as his pastries. I’d shrugged it off. I can handle criticism, and I wasn’t worried about his scathing commentary. I just hadn’t realized he’d be delivering it at a deafening volume, his head bent to an inch of my face, so close I could almost feel the prickles of his two-day unshaven beard. 
“Miss Rivers!” he said again, only this time he tried harder on the pronunciation. “Do you have any idea what you are doing?”
“No,” I admitted.
“Well - “ he stopped for a moment, as if he’d expected me to protest. “Well, let me tell you. You are not baking! You are not making pastry! Making pastry is like making love!” He moved his hands suggestively up and down his white chef’s coat and swiveled his hips around in tight circles. I tried not to look at any of the other students, since I knew if I caught anyone’s eye we’d all burst out laughing. 
“Like making love! You, Miss Rivers, are beating the shit out of someone and that will not make beautiful pastry! You should not be pummeling, you should be caressing! Caress your dough! Do you understand me?”
I composed myself.
“Yes, I understand,” I said. Philippe scowled, nodded, and waved the students back to their stations to caress their own dough.
As much as I hated to admit it, he had a point. Since childhood I had tended toward aggressive impatience rather than serene acceptance. This characteristic works well in software development but I was learning it wasn’t as useful in baking. What was I going to do if I couldn’t keep myself from pounding on things?
I sighed and peered into my bowl. I poked the dough with my index finger and was astonished to see it bounce back softly, just as it was supposed to do. Bernie, next to me, grinned.
“Looks like your dough has triumphed over adversity,” she said cheerfully. Bernie’s long brown hair was threatening to spring out of her hair net, while her faded yellow and red tie-dyed apron held back her flowing skirts. The apron was a gift from her son before he died, she told me when she saw me eyeing it at the beginning of the class. Her pastry dough was already punched down, shaped, and rising peacefully in two lovely twisted braids. 
On the other side of our counter, Smitty, an ex-Marine with a shaved head and muscles bulging through his t-shirt, was building his double-braids with precise concentration. Both braids were exactly the same length, with every twist identical. As I watched, he placed spoonfuls of apple filling with the intensity usually given to disarming an explosive. 
A quick glance around the room told me I was behind schedule, so I pulled my dough out of the bowl, slapped it a couple times, and divided it. While my dough was resting I shaved ripe figs into a boiling sugar mixture, then sat back and looked over at Susan. She’d been uncharacteristically quiet during the class so far. 
Susan, sporting a high-top ponytail and bright pink Crocs, was the reason I was able to get into Philippe’s class despite my pitiful lack of previous training. She knew John Paul from a brief stint at a culinary school in Tubac, and after I begged for three days straight she finally gave in and contacted him. John Paul slid the registration under Philippe’s nose on the condition that Susan join the class as well. 
I didn’t understand her reluctance. I knew she’d taken a week-long seminar on pate a choux from Philippe when he first arrived in Tucson. They’d gotten along so well Susan vanished from view for a few days. Tonight, though, she seemed nervous and uncomfortable. 
My fig mixture boiled up in a hiss of steam, and I gasped and dashed over to the stove. I stirred furiously until the boil calmed down, then set it out to cool. I carefully constructed the double-braid, centering fig and cheese along each side, and with a deep sense of foreboding, placed it in the warming drawer.
“Now!” Philippe said, rubbing his hands together. “Let’s make icing!” 